[Music]
ethiopia is one of the top 10 leading
sesame producers globally sesame is the
most important crop among the nine oil
seed crops grown in the country
although sesame has become one of
ethiopia's major export items most of
the export is in raw form
there are currently only a few companies
that are processing and exporting
roasted sesame as well as tahini
nonetheless additional investment in the
sector will allow the country to expand
its market share in sesame hulling
roasting toasting tahini processing and
oil crushing
[Music]
[Applause]
ethiopia is one of the centers of origin
and diversity for several types of crops
with a vast arable land
also known as white gold by farmers in
the northwest ethiopian sesame is an
original sesame grain that has a pure
nutty and sweet flavor combined with
high nutritional benefits
it mostly grows in an altitude that
ranges from 500 to 1500 meters above sea
level which provides the perfect climate
condition for sesame production
ethiopia is one of the top 10 leading
sesame producers globally sesame is the
most important crop among the nine oil
seed crops grown in the country the
total area allocated for sesame
production in the country covers 450 000
to 500 000 hectares involving both
smallholder farmers and commercial
farmers
due to its importance as a major export
cash crop the area coverage and
production has increased in the past few
years
ethiopia produces different varieties of
high quality organic sesame suitable for
wide range applications it is used more
for tahini halva confectionaries
bakeries and oil production
ethiopian sesame presents several health
benefits such as a source of fatty acids
protein carbohydrates and vitamins it
contains vitamin b complex which helps
to improve the nervous system and organ
functions as well as magnesium calcium
iron and copper which are important for
red blood cell production bone
mineralization enzyme synthesis and
hormone production
this makes sesame by far the most
important oil seed crop grown in
ethiopia both in terms of value and
export earnings
currently ethiopia exports its sesame
mainly to china israel and turkey
in the long term ethiopian sesame has
the potential to enter the high-value
european markets
its membership in komisa provides access
to 23 member countries and existing
trade agreements with top importers of
sesame globally allowing for duty-free
and quota-free imports from ethiopia
the last few years have shown
considerable international market demand
for ethiopian sesame which is expected
to increase
ethiopian sesame is preferred by its
buyers for its sweet taste fragrance
lower cholesterol oil content and aroma
although sesame has become one of
ethiopia's major export items most of
the export is in raw form
there are currently only a few companies
that are processing and exporting
roasted sesame as well as tahini
nonetheless additional investment in the
sector will allow the country to expand
its market share in sesame hulling
roasting toasting tahini processing and
oil crushing
in addition to ethiopia's diverse
agroclimatic zones the government is
enhancing the investment ecosystem in
the oil seeds value chain with an
extended package of incentives to make
the country the number one choice for
investment and processing of oil seeds
[Music]
you